So the Darwin Documentation
Project was launched a few months ago.
When we launched Darwin a
couple of years ago,
we made a major leap into open source.
With the Documentation Project,
we made another major leap because
we recognized that the documentation
is as important as the source code.
And just like the source code,
it's got to be open.
There have to be resources and tools
out there for you to contribute.
And you have to see what
we at Apple are doing.
So this presentation will give you the
lowdown on everything that's going on.
It's going to cover what's
changing in documentation.
So we've learned a lot from open source.
It's changing how we're
doing documentation.
You may learn a few things about
why documentation hasn't always
worked the way you wanted in the
past and why it's getting better now.
I'm going to go over with
HeaderDoC HowTo and the Man pages
the areas of documentation
that the project covers.
And then we're going to get into
some detail on what documentation
do we have related to Darwin.
What documentation are we working
on and where are some great areas
for you to contribute if you
happen to have some knowledge.
One big question we get is, well,
what does the Darwin Documentation
Project cover?
Darwin Documentation
covers what Darwin covers,
and probably most people in this
room are aware of what that is,
but here's a quick summary.
Obviously, that's the Mach BSD kernel,
kernel extensions, system framework,
command line environment,
network services.
Now, one of the things that people
notice is that our Apple writers,
the people contributing to the
Darwin Documentation Project,
are primarily focusing on drivers
and some basic kernel stuff.
Some people in the community
want some other things.
We'll get into some opportunities
there for people in the
community to contribute and such,
but I can say right up front
that our focus is definitely
drivers and the core kernel
information that you need right now.
So, as I mentioned,
you've probably been the
recipient of problems in the
traditional documentation process,
meaning once you get the documentation,
it's not complete or it's really late,
it comes out way out to the product.
Why does that happen?
Well, here's the traditional
model for documentation.
And it starts with the engineer.
The engineer has the
information that you need.
And they may write that down.
They may write comments
in the header file.
They may meet with a writer and
tell them what that information is.
The writer gets that information.
They put it together
into a nice document.
They get it reviewed.
They send it to the editor.
The editor goes through
it for consistency,
grammar, and makes sure that they're
communicating clearly,
works with them on those things.
Then it goes to the
production department.
The production department goes through
every page of the documentation.
They make sure it's paginated correctly.
They make the art look good.
They make sure that we're
following the right template.
It then goes out to the
vendors and distribution,
where it gets printed up into a book.
It goes out into the bookstores.
Finally, it gets to you.
This whole process has taken
anywhere from six to nine months.
Now, you open the book.
And let's say you find a bug or a feature
missing that you want to document it,
and you communicate that
back to the engineer.
Six to nine months later,
if you're lucky, when the book comes out,
the information that you
requested is in there.
Or maybe it's not.
Maybe we didn't have time to get to it.
So this is the source,
and even though this is a circle,
this is kind of a waterfall
that I'm communicating here,
this is the source of many
problems and many of the
reasons that the documentation
doesn't meet your expectations.
We have to follow this sometimes.
There are some books for
which this is the best model.
Large conceptual books like
the IOCAP Fundamentals book
that we'll talk about later,
which need to discuss the whole
architecture from top to bottom,
provide lots of illustrations,
get lots and lots of review
to make sure that we're
communicating it exactly right.
They've got to go through this process.
But, you know,
you read that book once and the
rest of the time you're reading
the rest of the documentation.
And it doesn't need to
go through that process.
Great.
We have a broken slide.
Okay.
We get together,
the TechPub's managers get together
about once a year in an offsite
and talk about what is going right,
what's going wrong,
or what we could do better,
and what we could learn
from our industry.
And a year or two ago,
it was my job to present what we could
learn from the rest of our industry.
And we sat there and scratched
our heads for a while and realized
not a whole lot at this point.
We were,
Apple is actually in a position of
being really leading edge in the
industry in terms of our public
methodology and what we're doing.
But we knew that there was
a lot more we could do.
And after some research,
what I discovered was that there
was an area of the software industry
that we had a lot to learn from.
And that was the open source area.
And they bring a new model
to documentation because
the open source projects,
when they created documentation projects,
it was engineers who
created those projects.
Engineers come from a code background.
They believe that things should be
buildable in a source repository that
anyone should be able to contribute,
and they should be diffable.
These are all brand new
concepts to us in publications.
So the model, we'll see what happens
with these slides here,
the model in...
The Darwin Documentation Project is
a production team that provides tools
for the development of the C code.
and Matt Morse are the main
developers of the project.
They are the developers on the project,
or even subject area experts
who just know a lot about it
and have a lot to communicate.
Finally, you have the audience,
which is right now in
Darwin primarily developers.
This will also be, of course,
sysadmin and users over time.
One of the things to notice is that
developers on the content providing side,
developers on the audience side.
So these people need the
tools to talk to themselves.
With the open source tools and
using repositories and such,
we cut down on the waterfall model.
Instead of having necessarily
an editor in the process,
it will maybe just go to the
tool and then go to the audience.
Or in the ideal case, and HeaderDoC,
which we'll talk about in a moment,
is an example of this.
In the ideal case,
the production people provide the
tool and get out of the picture.
So in the case of HeaderDoC,
we give you HeaderDoC,
the developers have HeaderDoC,
it goes directly to the
audience when they release
their product or their header.
The audience can comment on that,
the developer can
re-release it right away,
or even better,
this is what's happened with Darwin,
we had IOGraphicsLib.h in the I/O Kit.
We hadn't gotten around to
getting HeaderDoC into that yet.
But Tori Lyons, a Darwin developer,
noticed this, and he put together the
HeaderDoC and sent it to us.
So in this new model,
things are so different from the old
one that the audience is now providing
the documentation to the developers.
This is very exciting to us,
and this is where we're
focusing all of our energies.
So let's talk about what
I call the ideal model there,
and that's HeaderDoC.
HeaderDoC treats the
documentation as source code.
The documentation resides in the
header files in a tagged format.
HeaderDoC currently
covers C and C++ projects.
It's very similar to JavaDoc tags.
And I'd like to have Matt Morse come
up and show us a HeaderDoC file.
And if we could go to...
So this is a HeaderDoC file.
And notice in addition
to regular comments,
we have right at the top
a header-wide comment.
This is so that you can provide
some documentation related
to the entire framework or
header that you're dealing with.
But then most of the comments
are on a per function or
type def or data type basis.
So if we go down to IOFB create cursor,
create shared cursor there,
you can see this is a-- so this
is a function declaration and
the HeaderDoc related to it.
And the thing to notice-- and I'll
provide some detail over here.
First thing to notice is that
it has a special comment format.
And that is /*bang.
Some people have asked
us why we did that,
why we didn't either use the Java doc
comment format or just a normal comment,
which would just be /*.
The reason we went this way was because,
first of all,
while we designed HeaderDoc to
be very similar to Java,
we wanted to make sure that we were
using the same Java doc as the Java doc.
It's not Java doc.
And it has to use different
tags because of C and C++.
So we didn't want to confuse
any Java doc processing tools
and have them try to grab this
comment and do something with it.
Second, though,
we didn't want to look like a
regular comment because sometimes,
as you can see here,
the HeaderDoc balloons up
the size of the header.
We were concerned that some engineers
would not want that to be the
case in their published headers.
Actually, so far,
people don't really seem
to have an issue with it.
But just in case,
we wanted them to be able to run a tool
before they published a header which
would strip out the HeaderDoc files
but leave the normal comments so they
could leave in comments like don't
pass null to this and such and not
have those stripped out of the file.
So that's why we have
this comment format.
There's only one required
tag for a HeaderDoc comment.
And that's the first tag,
which explains what it is.
So in this case, it's a function,
IOFB create shared cursor.
There are a variety of
different tags depending on
what you might be identifying.
The rest of the tags are optional.
A great one to have is an abstract.
The abstract will get pulled out of
some of our tools and used in tables
of contents so people can see quickly
what it is they're going to jump to.
Then, of course, the meat of the comment
is the discussion.
This is typically one to three
paragraphs of your information
about what this function does.
Then for one or more of the parameters,
however many you choose,
you can provide parameter
specific documentation.
Finally, if you have a return code,
you can choose to identify
what that return code is.
The only other requirement for
a HeaderDoc comment is that its
placement must be directly above
the thing that it's talking about.
There can be white space and all that,
but it has to be above so that when our
Perl tools go through and process this,
they can connect the two
together and make use of them.
So now I'd like to have Matt walk
through the actual process of
creating some HeaderDoc here.
Okay, we can build HeaderDoc either
directly in Project Builder,
and I'll show you how to do that,
but more commonly,
especially for Darwin developers,
you'd be building it from the
command line because you don't
have Project Builder to use.
The command is quite simple.
It's headerdoc to HTML.
And that's in user bin on your system.
You can give it an output directory
to drop the documentation into.
-o is for the output directory.
And then you tell it what to process.
And what to process can
be either a single header,
a group of headers, or a folder.
And if it's a folder,
it'll recurse through the folder,
finding all headers and processing them.
In this case, before we run this,
let's take a look.
We've got iographicslib.h,
as we were talking about,
but we have a number
of other headers here,
too.
There are eight headers,
one's in a subfolder.
So we process it.
It's gone through the eight headers.
It emits a comment for
each one that it visits.
Here you notice that it's skipping
one because it didn't find
anything of interest to document.
There were no HeaderDoC comments
in that header.
And I know because I counted,
it's gone through eight headers and it's
produced over 50 pages of documentation.
So let's look at that documentation.
So we produce this folder, doc,
and here are the seven
folders of documentation,
one per header, that we've generated.
And we can look at
iographics lib documentation.
It produces a frame set of documentation,
so you can open the
index.html to get there.
And as you can see,
you've got a TOC on the left,
and that at header comment that
Ron pointed out has become the
opening page of your documentation.
For each function, you have a link,
and you can see how those tags
have been converted into HTML.
The function tag, let's look at the one
that Ron pointed out,
the create shared cursor.
We have the title.
That was the at tag.
The function tag.
Abstract is here.
The declaration is pulled
directly from the header.
And then we have the tag.
This is the discussion block.
And then each parameter is listed
and described in this table.
And the result code follows.
So you have a long page
of each of the functions.
In the TOC, you'll see grouping headings
depending on the type of API,
enumerations, and pound defines.
And so you can print
out this documentation,
which would be hard to
do with a frame set.
There's a link at the bottom
that will open up one continuous
page of documentation,
and then you can print that out.
It has all the functions,
all the enumerations, and so on.
Okay,
now that's nice that we've created a
folder of documentation for every header,
but it would be even more
convenient if there was a way to
gather this all together in a more
easily navigatable arrangement.
And so we have another script,
GatherHeaderDoc.
That takes as its input
the folder to go visit.
It visits every island of documentation
that Headerdoc created and it creates
a TOC and also adjusts some links so
that you can get from the island back to
the TOC and from the TOC to the island.
So let's look at what that looks like.
Okay, so here's our documentation.
Notice that now we have this master TOC.
A lot of the names of the files are
configurable through a configuration
file that I'll talk about later.
So if we open that,
You see the links to each of
the pools of documentation.
And we've added a top button
here to get back to the TOC.
Now, if one of these headers, let's say--
Let's say, event source.
If it described more than just C API,
if it had a C++ class,
you end up with more than one
frame set of documentation.
This is the frame set
for the header itself.
And in fact, there's only one thing other
than the class of interest in it,
and that's that #define.
But there's also a class, ioEventSource.
So we can go visit that.
And notice that this is
much like the C frameset,
except now you have member
functions and member data.
And within each of those headings,
you have the access type, public,
private, and so on.
And your class documentation
is there for you.
So I told you that you can
build this documentation
directly in Project Builder.
I'll show you how that's done.
If you've been to any of
the Project Builder talks,
you know that they're build
phases for your targets.
So if you go to the Targets tab and look
at-- this is just an empty project that
contains my header files.
And look at the build phases.
You'll see down here I've added two more.
These are shell script build phases.
And all that does is run a script.
And here I define it.
And this is pretty much exactly
what I ran on the command line.
The only difference is I'm using
some symbolic constants that
Project Builder knows about to
tell it where to find the source
and where to put the documentation.
So I'm going to look for the source
headers in the project source and I'm
going to put the documentation in the
resources folder inside the app wrapper.
And after I do that,
I'm going to run the second shell script,
GatherHeaderDoc,
which will go into that folder of
documentation and create the master TOC.
So let's do that.
Now if you look up
here in the build pane,
after it does the normal build phases,
you'll see running by
the HeaderDoC comments.
I think we're about there.
OK.
That was HeaderDoC going by.
There's GatherHeaderDoC.
So if we go back to the
files display and look in
the products now we have our
application HeaderDoc demo dot app
and you can go in there we have
created this folder of documentation
and here's our master TOC.
And as you saw in some of
the Project Builder talks,
we're trying to integrate the
documentation with Project Builder.
So in a later release,
you'll be able to see your
documentation right there.
So one last thing I'd like to show
is the documentation for HeaderDoC.
It is installed on your system.
It's in Developer Documentation,
Developer Tools,
and it comes with HeaderDoC if you
download it from our website as well.
HeaderDoC has reference to tell you
pretty much what I've just told you about
how to use it and what to expect from it,
how to run it.
It also talks about the configuration
file I mentioned that lets you set
some of the names of the files.
And then it starts discussing
how to tag your source.
And at the bottom here,
there's a reference for all the
tags that you can use in C and C++.
So if you're wondering
about function tags,
well, here are the tags that
you can use at function,
at param, at result.
And for every type of API,
it gives an example of a
declaration that's been tagged.
And for those of you who would like
to contribute to the HeaderDoC effort
and want to play with Perl,
it's a fairly nicely structured script,
I think,
that has a parser that generates objects.
It's an object-oriented Perl script,
and this is the class hierarchy
of the objects that are produced.
The source code itself
has a lot of comments,
and there's an active mailing list that
you can sign up for to join the effort.
So I hope you use it.
Thank you.
Thanks, Matt.
And Matt is the primary
author of HeaderDoC.
If we could go to slides on both screens.
So our goals for HeaderDoC.
All C and C++ API in
Darwin should be using HeaderDoC.
If you own or are maintaining or
contributing to a C or C++ project,
start using HeaderDoC today
if you're not already.
We will then have a universal approach
to reference across the system and
it'll be the best for everyone.
We really want to support Objective-C,
of course.
We have, at each step,
added functionality to HeaderDoC based
on what we needed at that moment.
As Cocoa becomes a reality on 10,
we're very interested
in adding Objective-C.
A number of our people in
the Darwin community have
expressed interest in doing this.
Matt's a really busy guy right
now and he's actually doing the
code also to put the editing,
the documentation viewing and
editing into Project Builder.
So we're not going to get Objective-C.
We're going to be in for a little
while and if you're someone who
knows or would like to learn
Perl and is interested in that,
you could really help us out.
Join the mailing list.
You can go to list.apple.com
or to the Darwin site and find
out about the mailing list.
And finally,
Matt showed how you can do this
in Mac OS X and Project Builder.
We want to make a push button so
that you don't have to go and add
in your own build phase stuff.
That will happen in the near future.
Next we have,
as an area that we cover in the
Darwin Documentation Project,
are how-to documents.
So these are different from
HeaderDoc in that who provides
them tends to be different.
In HeaderDoc, it's almost always the
engineer who created the code
who provides the HeaderDoc.
With how-to documents,
anyone who has the knowledge can and is
encouraged to provide a how-to document.
These are typically self-contained
small articles from 1 to 10 pages.
There's no particular restriction.
You can make it as long as you want.
But you can make it as long as you want.
So you can make it as long as you want.
That's the standard.
They solve a particular problem or
tell you how to get your job done in
a particular aspect of the system.
We'll get into some examples later
of what we have and some of the
ones that would be useful to add.
They're authored in DocBook XML.
A lot of people have heard about XML,
maybe they've used it
a bit for their system,
but they haven't necessarily seen how
it was intended to be used originally.
We can go into that and how we use it.
DocBook XML
Is the industry standard XML definition
for technical publications?
So the idea with XML is that each
industry would come up with its own
set of tags specific to that industry.
The medical industry is
doing this for billing,
etc.
Well, probably the most advanced set of
XML tags in the world is DocBook for
exactly the kind of stuff that we do.
XML is structured information,
which we will get to in a minute.
And there is-- if you are interested
in trying to venture into XML and
learn what this is all about,
there's a lot of information
in the Darwin documentation
HowTo in the HowTo site.
The only problem there is
that the tools for XML,
the editing tools for XML,
aren't quite there yet.
If you remember with HTML,
it took two or three years before
there were good HTML editors.
And XML is much harder
to create an editor for.
So there are lots of editors in progress,
but there aren't any that are
going to solve all your problems.
And we're more interested
in getting the information.
If you have a HowTo in you,
if you have information that
other Darwin developers or
system administrators or
users should know about,
we just want the information.
So if you don't want to get into
XML or if you venture into it
and find it's a little murky,
just go ahead and email to me your
document or to the Darwin developer list.
We will turn it into XML for
you and add it to the project.
So let's get into some of the detail of
XML and how it's different from HTML,
which you may be familiar with.
HTML has formatting-based tags.
So your tag will say,
this word is italic, this word is bold,
this word is an H1.
But it won't say why it's italic.
It won't say why it's bold.
So processing tools can't
do anything with it.
They can't change the formatting based
on the output or do anything with it.
XML is exactly the opposite.
It only tells about the
content of the tags.
It does not say what to do with it.
So for instance,
in a Darwin Documentation HowTo,
you have a title of the document.
The title is clearly named "Title."
You have a first name of the author.
You have the email address of the author.
So absolutely nothing is said
about how to process this.
That comes later.
Other tools will come along,
take a look at these and process them,
and we'll show you how that works.
This is a very important difference.
It takes people a little
while to get used to.
The effect is to turn your
document into a mini database.
The other very important aspects of XML,
and really, in my opinion,
the reason that XML is
taking off in the world,
are that the tags are
hierarchical and closed.
Now, HTML has a little of both of these.
The problem is it's not strict about it,
so it doesn't help very much.
So, for instance,
a paragraph tag in HTML does
not have to be closed.
Some browsers make you close list items,
some don't.
And so you don't know how your
document is going to work in different
browsers until you just try it.
In XML, this never happens.
There's an absolute rule.
Tags must be closed.
So to take a reasonably
sophisticated little block
of XML from a HowTo document,
the revision history.
So there's a revision history section.
Each revision gets a comment and such.
This has an opening tag, rev history,
and a closing tag, rev history.
Everything else will be inside there.
Each revision has an opening revision
tag and a closing revision tag.
Then, for each piece of information
about that revision,
it has an opening tag and a closing tag.
So we have the revision number,
we have the date of the revision,
and finally, any comment we want to
create for this revision.
So this is a great example of
how a tool goes through this and
figures out what to do with it.
The writer doesn't say anything,
but here's the information
that I'm providing to you.
One of the things people find when
they hit DocBook is DocBook is
a very mature set of XML tags
and it tries to do everything.
So you can create facts with DocBook,
you can create books,
you can create articles,
you can create lots of other things.
And that means there are so many
tags that people get overwhelmed
and they don't know what to do.
The trick is ignore them.
You only need, in order to author a
Darwin documentation HowTo document,
to know about 10 tags.
Now to be honest,
at the top and bottom of the document
there are a few more tags in that,
like the Rev History there.
You just want to copy those from the
template that we give you on the site.
And don't worry,
just fill in the information.
You don't need to remember
the tags or anything.
The only tags you actually need
to know when you're providing
information are about 10.
This is a good sample of them.
So what a section is, a title,
a paragraph.
A couple different kinds of lists.
How to list code.
And URLs.
That's about all you need to know.
So really, you just grab our template
that we have on the site.
That gives you all the
tags you need to know.
You don't need to worry
about any of the others.
Now I'd like to have Matt come up
again and show us a demo of this.
Okay, so Ron talked about the
nested nature of XML.
Here's a document.
This is the Darwin doc HowTo document.
This is a document that describes
how to create these HowTo documents.
And as he mentioned,
here's that revision history block and
other standard blocks like the abstract.
Something that's more like what you
would be doing is these section blocks.
This is the facts section.
We'll see this once we generate
the HTML question and answer.
It has a title and a paragraph
and a section indicator.
Okay, just as with HeaderDoC,
you can build the stuff
in Project Builder,
but it's more likely that you'll
be doing this on the command line.
The command that we use is XSLTproc,
which is a--
A command that applies an
XSL file to the XML file.
The XSL file provides the formatting.
Actually, it's more than that.
It's a transformations file
that takes the XML that is just
defined in terms of semantics.
This is a title,
or this is an email address,
and applies format to it.
Beyond that,
it can do other transformations,
and we'll see that.
The one that we're using is DocBook.
We're going to process the
Darwin HowTo and redirect
the output to a file.
It will be HTML by the time this is done.
We can open that HowTo file.
Okay, so this is that XML now
transformed into HTML.
And things like the
title are just applied,
formats applied to them.
But things like the email address,
the transformation is to create
a mail-to link as well as to
format it in a specific way.
And then our input XML document
did not have a table of contents.
This was extracted by XSL Tproc and
the XSL transformation file by looking
at the structure of the document and
extracting the upper and lower level
headings and making them into links.
Also, we've got URLs that are now hot.
And here's this question and answer
section that we're looking at the titles,
the questions, and the formatted answers.
Also, if you go back up and show
the revision history section,
I wanted to stress something here.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
So just wanted to stress here,
here are the revision history
tags that the writer provided.
Here is the output.
As you can see,
the XSL tool has done something
completely different with them.
It's created a sophisticated table.
If you've ever done your
own table editing in HTML,
you know it's quite a pain.
In this case, the writer didn't even know
it was going to be a table.
And there you have it.
So that's the great power
of using this process.
OK, thank you.
Can we go back to slides on both, please?
So our goals for HowTo documents.
Well, we started the HeaderDoC project
quite a while ago,
and that's going very well.
All of I/O Kit is in HeaderDoC,
and many other projects
are beginning to do that.
Many other companies throughout
the software industry,
even totally unrelated to Darwin,
are beginning to use
HeaderDoC because they-- I mean,
yeah, HeaderDoC-- because they find
it to be a really valuable tool.
HowTo documents, we just got going in the
last couple of months.
Our goal is to document all common tasks.
So anyone coming to
Darwin to help develop it,
administrate it, whatever,
has a place to go,
and find a quick explanation of the
various things they need to know.
So a great example of this is-- and
it's up there now-- HowToBuildDarwin.
We will have, next week, going up,
HowToBeADarwinDeveloper.
We also,
and this is really important to us,
want to cover all the
common driver families.
So we'd like to have a HowTo for each
driver family you can go to that gives
you the lowdown on what you should
be subclassing and what you need to
expect when you're working with that.
Finally, very important to the community
and important to Apple too,
is that there are a lot of topics
that our writers at Apple are
not necessarily the best people
to provide information for.
And we're all really excited to
see that Darwin is up on Intel,
that a huge number of people
have downloaded it for Intel.
But to be absolutely honest,
those of us sitting in Apple offices are
not necessarily the best to provide you
information on how to use it on Intel.
So this is a great opportunity for people
in the community to provide information
for those Darwin users who need it.
And we'd love to see some of this.
So if there's anything
you know like that,
that'd be great to contribute.
Finally, we have our last section
of documentation,
the Darwin Documentation.
That's man pages.
As if you've done any development
whatsoever on a Unix system,
you know man pages are critical
for Darwin development.
If you've done any
development on our system,
you know man pages are maybe
not in the state that we would
like to be them in right now.
So this is a major focus for the
next couple of months for us.
And what we're working on is, of course,
we want to have a complete set
of accurate and useful man pages.
And how we're getting there is,
a few years ago, it made sense.
At the time,
to take the man pages and put
them into a documentation project
that a writer would maintain.
And we ended up separating them
in the code from the projects
that they were documenting.
This turns out maybe not to,
at least at this point,
have been such a great idea.
And the result is we have some stagnant
man pages that need a lot of updating.
And the engineers have kind of
gotten out of the habit of keeping
their own man page up to date.
So we need to explode this project,
get the man pages back next to
their commands where they belong.
Get them back to their original state.
Get the engineers updating them.
We need to clean up a lot of old bugs.
We really need to get back into staying
in sync with our upstream man pages.
So we need, in particular,
to be working closely
with the BSD people.
Get the BSD, free BSD man pages in there
and get that cleaned up.
And that's, so again,
the next couple of months,
a major focus for us.
And you'll be seeing that.
That's something we primarily,
we will be providing some goals and
guidelines for people doing their own
commands on how to keep up a man page.
But the rest of that's primarily
something we need to do.
We need to do at Apple.
On Mac OS X,
we're going to provide HTML display of
the man pages in Project Builder along
with the rest of the documentation.
We're also considering,
and this is something
we'd like to get input on,
maybe during the Q&A or if
you send email or anything.
We're considering doing like
OpenBSD and some of the others and
putting up on the Darwin site a full
HTML version of the man pages that
you can search and navigate through.
And where that goes on our priority
list depends on how much people want it.
We're not totally sure.
So now we get to what might be
really interesting for some of you.
What actual documentation
do we have at this point?
First of all, you should be aware that at
this time there's two sort of
places to go when you're dealing
with Darwin-related information.
One, of course, is the Darwin site.
The other, though,
is the ADC Mac OS X website where we
have a whole kernel page of information
that you may or may not be aware of.
This includes pointers
to Iocat HeaderDoc,
Iocat Tutorials, Conceptual Docs, etc.
In fact, as of this week,
this is a great thing
to go and check out,
we have the first part of
our Iocat Fundamentals book
explaining the whole system.
We have brand new information about
USB and HID up on the website,
and that's a great place to check it out.
We have HowTo documents.
So the Darwin developer,
how to be a Darwin developer
will get up next week.
Building Darwin is there now.
Some general ones like setting
your Intel screen resolution.
And then of course the
Darwin Documentation HowTo,
which contains quite a lot of
information on all the stuff
we're talking about today,
tools you can use, what you need to know,
etc.
We are working on, we have tutorials now,
kernel and I/O Kit and
packaging and such tutorials.
We're doing a revision of these
to include versioning information.
These should be up in
the next week or two.
What we're working on.
Well, as you can see,
we're starting to bridge the gap
between Darwin and Mac OS X in
terms of this information.
So we're no longer thinking
of IOCit documentation and
such as separate from Darwin.
It's documenting Darwin technologies.
Now, an important point there, though,
is this doesn't mean that everyone has
to be a Darwin developer or go to the
Darwin site to get our information.
This is how we're developing the doc.
This is how we're making
our processes available,
letting people have more
information about what we're doing.
When we distribute IOCit documentation
or anything else like that,
it will go to all the standard places.
It will go to the standard
developer CDs and up on the
website and all the normal places,
et cetera.
So the Darwin process is just
an opportunity for us to let you
get closer to the documentation,
see what we're doing,
and contribute if you want to.
We're doing the IOCit Fundamentals book
that I've mentioned a couple times.
It's a really critical book.
Go and check out the first part of it.
We're going to be getting this up
as rapidly as we can to give you
the whole picture of the IOCit.
And written by Terry Donahue,
it's the same person who did
the system overview book for
Mac OS X that you saw a year or two ago.
So we know it's going to be really good.
And in addition to more cookbooks,
of course, we're continually working
on more HeaderDoC coverage.
This is what we like to call
open source opportunities.
You might also call it,
it's not there yet.
So this is all stuff
we'll get to someday,
but we would love it if people
who know as much or more than
we do in the community could
contribute in these areas.
So please,
if you're someone who has information
in kernel programming or debugging,
architecture, VFS, kernel extension,
network kernel extensions,
make a note of it.
Think about doing a HowTo.
Contact us.
Email the Darwin Developer List.
Email me.
And of course,
HeaderDoC coverage in your own projects.
And if you see, as Tori did,
HeaderDoC missing in something
that you know a lot about,
and you could spend an hour and provide
it and help everyone else out a lot,
that would be really great.
So if you don't know
the stuff on that list,
but you'd like to contribute,
join the Darwin Developer List.
We don't have a special
documentation list at this point,
because we want everyone
to feel included.
So join the Darwin Development List.
Ask what people need.
See what people are talking about.
See if there's something
that you can contribute to.
Write a HowTo document.
And in particular, as I said,
if you need to, just send me the HTML,
the RTF, whatever it is.
I'll turn it into XML for you.
So on any issue related to the
Darwin Documentation Project,
you can contact me or send
email to the Darwin Developers
List for HeaderDoC and such.
You can contact Matt even better.
Send email to the
HeaderDoC Developers Mailing List,
which you can also join.